---
title: You have infinite email addresses
date: 2016-04-02
tags: productivity, email
author: Rohan
---

> **tl;dr**  
> You can add arbitrary tags to your email address. Any email sent to
> `your-email+tag@your-provider.ext` will land in the inbox for
> `your-email@your-provider.ext`.


Emails are important. They are one's identity on the web. Just like on phone,
you'd want to control who can contact you via email. This warrants caution while
signing up at various places on the internet. It can be unsafe to register with
the personal email address on new services for multiple reasons:

 - Bulk data breaches [are fairly common][data-breaches]. You don't want your
   email address out there for bots around the world to feed on.
 - The service you are signing up for may itself be malicious. Or worse, it may
   be Facebook!
 - Same email address on every service can make it simpler for bots to break
   into your accounts once they succeed in attacking one.
 - There [are actual services][full-contact] dedicated for creating single
   points of catastrophic failures utilizing email addresses.

These sound upsetting, but are indeed manageable to an extent. One trick that I
use is *tagging my email address*. It is a fairly common practice among
programmers. Most popular email services support this.

What do I mean by tagging? Lets take Jon's email: `jon.snow@email.wf`. His
sister, Arya, will know the address as is. But for the untrustworthy Lannisters,
he tags the email: `jon.snow+lannister@email.wf`. When a someone writes to this
address: he will receive the mails, with the ability to trace it to Lannisters.

> `email.wf` here is a fictional service, analogous to `gmail.com`. I didn't
> want to accidentally use an actual email address.

One may use a similar technique while signing up for services on the
internet. Say Jon wants to register on `nightwatch.got`.

 - In `NightWatch`'s registration form, he'd use `jon.snow+nightwatch@email.wf`
   as the email. The tag `+nightwatch` here is arbitrarily chosen.
 - Jon will get the confirmation mail in the original account. Being prudent,
   he'll verify that the mail it does have the correct tag in the *to address*.
 - Also, `email.wf` lets Jon send emails with the tagged address. This is useful
   for talking to the customer care. For GMail users, this can be done
   by going to:  
   `Settings -> Accounts and Import -> Add another email address you own`.  
   and filling up the form with the tagged address.

This means Jon can have practically infinite email addresses. Why is this
helpful?

 - Jon can collect all the mails from *NightWatch* at one place, specially when
   their mails aren't consistent enough to write filters.
 - If the credentials for *NightWatch* were to be leaked, say through Phishing,
   other more important services like the email account itself would not be as
   vulnerable.
 - One cannot track Jon's movements across various accounts/profiles through the
   email address.
 - Sites which don't allow tags in email address can be a red flags for Jon to
   find alternative services. Jon can assume that they'd have terrible
   developers/management.

Making this into a habit will of course require a bit of discipline. But
eventually, it gets instinctive.

On a related note, [this][phishing-book] is an interesting book, that talks
about Phishing through email in the real world.

[data-breaches]: http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/biggest-worst-data-breaches-hacks_us_55d4b5a5e4b07addcb44fd9e?section=india
[full-contact]: https://www.fullcontact.com/gmail/
[phishing-book]: https://goo.gl/cg3d5j
