---
title: Experiences with my first telescope
date: 2016-05-12
tags: astronomy, stargazing
author: Rohan
---

In my [previous post][], I wrote about my initial experiences with stargazing -
primarily to demonstrate that it can be fascinating without fancy
equipment. After those initial sessions, I bought a telescope which magnified my
experience significantly.

> Stars. Stars everywhere!


## The Telescope

The primary purpose of a (astronomical) telescope, unlike popular belief, is not
actually magnification. They act as light collectors (think burning a match with
a converging lens).

Because the aperture of our eye is very small (7mm at best), we don't capture
enough light to see faint stars. Telescopes (and binoculars) can have much
larger objectives and hence more surface area where the photon can hit.

Buying a telescope (or anything?) on an impulse is a bad idea. There are
multiple articles/guides (like [this one][guide]) that talk about various
telescopes and their purposes. I'd recommend going through a few of those while
having some direct gazing sessions, helps in setting up the preferences and
expectations.

I personally enjoy looking at faint stars and deep sky objects or DSOs (star
clusters, galaxies, nebulae) more compared to planets/moon. To start with, the
objects that Charles Messier [catalogued][dso].

My telescope is a Newtonian reflector with a **114mm** aperture and **900mm**
focal length. I have 3 kellner eyepieces of sizes (and magnifications) **25mm
(36x)**, **10mm (90x)** and **4mm (225x)**. It has a **6x24** (i.e. 6x
magnification and 24mm aperture) finder. To keep the weight (and price) at a
minimum, I got an Altazimuth mount.

On the web, [this scope][powerseeker] is similar to mine. But I'd actually
recommend [Orion XT6][] for much better observations or [Orion StarBlast 4.5][]
for its portability.


## Finding things

[Star hopping][] is the technique that is conventionally used by armature
astronomers. But with star charts, I also have [Stellarium][], with which I get
precise details of much fainter stars. Once having pointed the scope to a bright
star, I synchronize my path with Stellarium. Because I am comparing stars in sky
to a star in telescope, it is possible for me to end up at the exact locations
of a DSO even if I can't discern it because of light pollution.

I'll write more about this in a future post.


## Orion Nebula (M42)

[Orion Nebula][] is the brightest diffuse nebula in the sky and lies in the
constellation Orion (which also hosts my favorite star, Betelgeuse). Although it
looks nothing like the colourful and detailed photos on the internet. I see it
as a fuzzy extended grey object, similar to
[Charles Messier's sketch][m42-sketch]. It is remarkable, nevertheless. The four
young stars in its heart are distinctly noticeable. When Orion was accessible,
it was a ritual for me spend a few minutes on it before anything else.

> The Orion Nebula is an example of a stellar nursery where new stars are being
> born.


## Open star clusters

Of all the DSOs, I find open star clusters the most exciting. I like to examine
their finer details, matching each star with Stellarium's rendering.

The constellation **Canis Major** hosts a few prominent clusters. **M41** was
the first cluster I ever saw. It is fairly bright. I even sketched the star
pattern on paper, which now stays on my table at work. **NGC 2362 (Canis Major
cluster)**, although not actually from the Messier catalogue, is also
interesting. Most of its brightness comes from the star τ Canis Majoris. I
noticed it when I was meandering around the lower part of the constellation.

I saw a few clusters in and around the **Puppis** constellation. **M93** is a
nice and bright cluster. At the time of my observation, M93 was straight above
the star **Asmidiske (ξ Pup)**. Asmidiske, being yellow, is a sight in
itself. It has two companion stars nearby. **M47** and **M46** are categorized
to be in Puppis, but I used Canis Major, Hydra and Monoceros as reference for
them. M47 is bright, but M46 isn't as noticeable with my setup.

**Taurus** had a significance for me as the host to **Pleiades (M45)**. It is a
cluster of very bright stars, with the brightest few visible without any optical
instruments.

**M35** in **Gemini** is yet another bright cluster that I observed.


## Planets

Planets are like stars but brighter and without the twinkling. With a telescope,
a few more details may be seen.

The planet I have most observed is **Jupiter**. Initially, to my disappointment,
I could only make out an extend bright white disk. Eventually, my skills
improved (Jupiter moved toward opposition as well) and I could actually make out
the colors and the stripes. By coincidence I even got to see the great red
spot. Jupiter rotates about its axis very fast (8 hour days), and I never had
actually planned a sighting.

> By Jupiter's moving toward opposition, its the Earth's movement in between the
> Sun and Jupiter which has significance.

Of all the planets, I was most interested in **Saturn**. Having straightened my
expectations, I was not disappointed on first sight. The ring is indeed present
and looks beautiful. I haven't been able to see the Cassini's division yet
though. More sitting of Saturn gazing are upcoming.

**Mars** is a red/orange disk with no other features visible (yet). I saw
**Venus** only for a few minutes. Its unlikely that I'd be able to see
**Mercury** from where I am.

**Moon** (although not a planet) can be seen in fine details. It is the only
object which is bright enough to take photos of with my phone's camera. But
other than that, I find it uninteresting. Moreover, it obliterates my eye's dark
adjustment. Moonless nights are the best for stargazing.


## Nebulae, Globular clusters and Galaxies

These tend to be faint and the city lights takes away the required contrast for
their visibility. My eyes probably caught photons originating from even the ones
I couldn't identify, because I verify the location I am pointing at based on the
nearby faint stars.

The DSO which took up most of my time is **M1 (Crab nebula)**. It is a supernova
remnant in **Taurus**. I must have put in 6+ hours cumulative in attempts to
observe it. Infact, I remember much of the star patterns near the nebula. But,
wouldn't claim to have seen the nebula itself.

Another such object is **M78**, a reflection nebula in **Orion**. I have the
nearby star patterns for it memorized as well. If at all, I saw a very dark grey
and fuzzy object. **M43** is nebula right beside Orion nebula. I couldn't
discern it at all though, because of the imposing adjacent nebula.

**M53**, a globular cluster in Coma Berenices, is visible as a dim round grey
object. **M68** is a globular cluster in Hydra. But I could not clearly
distinguish it.

**M104** (Sombrero Galaxy) lies near Virgo. I recently started observing it. I
did notice the presence of something, but may just be an illusion. The view
should improve in the future sightings.


## Limiting Magnitude

> In astronomy, [limiting magnitude][] is the faintest apparent magnitude of a
> celestial body that is detectable or detected by a given instrument.  
> - Wikipedia

I find figuring out the limiting magnitude for my telescope interesting.
Theoretically, I should be able to see stars up to an apparent magnitude of
**12.8**, but I can't actually. The lower the apparent magnitude of on object,
the brighter it is. My skills, light pollution, quality of optics and the
atmosphere bring this down significantly. The faintest stars I have seen, with
significant effort, are roughly of magnitude **11.2**. Usually, I can
conveniently see stars upto **10** and with a bit of effort (a second or so of
concentration), **10.5**.

Because of how our eye are designed, moving it during observations and using
[averted vision][] improves the ability to distinguish very low contrast
objects.


[previous post]: /sky/
[dso]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Messier_objects
[guide]: http://www.skyandtelescope.com/astronomy-equipment/how-to-choose-a-telescope/
[powerseeker]: http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0000Y8C2Y/ref=as_li_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1789&creative=9325&creativeASIN=B0000Y8C2Y&linkCode=as2&tag=crodjer-20&linkId=H3RLG5OMNQX6ZMOH
[Orion XT6]: http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001DDW9UW/ref=as_li_qf_sp_asin_il_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1789&creative=9325&creativeASIN=B001DDW9UW&linkCode=as2&tag=crodjer-20&linkId=U6A22R7IFLTDIBPQ.amazon.com/gp/product/B001DDW9UW
[Orion StarBlast 4.5]: http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00D12U1IK/ref=as_li_qf_sp_asin_il_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1789&creative=9325&creativeASIN=B00D12U1IK&linkCode=as2&tag=crodjer-20&linkId=XUNVRD64WYTFUT6U
[Star hopping]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Star_hopping#The_technique
[Orion Nebula]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Orion_Nebula
[m42-sketch]: http://messier.seds.org/Pics/History/m42m.jpg
[Stellarium]: http://stellarium.org/
[limiting magnitude]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Limiting_magnitude
[averted vision]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Averted_vision
