---
layout: post
title: "Why I do not prefer a shower"
slug: "why-i-do-not-prefer-a-shower"
published: true
tags:
    - practices
    - conservation
    - efficiency
category: random
author: crodjer
---

> If you only have water quantity equal to the capacity of a bucket available
> for a bath. How would you prefer to use it? *All of it through a shower*?
> *Or a mug to take out the water when you actually need it*?

In India, our elder generations always suggest against the *new* concept of
*taking a "cool" shower* for a bath. They prefer a mug with a bucket and pouring
it manually. Now, why is that? Isn't it a faster, easier and more convenient
to just have a shower do it for you? Let me tell you something before
getting back at this:

Cell phone network services now allow us to pay per second (even smaller
time units sometimes) instead of per minute to let the users pay according
to the servce they use more precisely. A cloud hosting service allocates
resources only when required instead of permanenty dedicating a resource
even if it is not being used. The 8GB storage showing in Gmail doesn't mean
that google has put aside 8GB of space just for you. It means that it would
be available when you need.  
These surely require more complicated implementation but yet are accepted
technological advances.

Now back to our bath, consider water as the money you spend for services
and your getting wet its usage. Here I observe that there is a revese
development going on in the above analogy. We cannot use the water comming
out of the shower at a time completely, it always does go wasted. No one
needs the shower to run all the time. As far as the convenience, speed is
concerned it will depend on if you actually are taking a bath or just trying
to pretend to yourself that you did.

Taking a shower is *not* "cool".  
Thank you for reading this. Please at least consider the humble bucket and
mug.
