---
layout: post
title: What I learnt about buying computers
slug: what-i-learnt-about-buying-computers
published: true
tags: computers, shopping
date: 11th Aug, 2011
author: crodjer
---

Some time ago I planed my [computer's configuration](http://j.mp/o043VH) . It
was a really powerful machine with all the latest hardware. I had ruled out
laptops considering the higer costs with lower configuration and absence of the
Sandy Bridge architecture.

But due to unavailablility of processor and motherboard in India, I had to wait
for a long time till I figured out how to get all the parts. While the wait, I
started doing a smart upgrade of my existing notebook. I got a new monitor,
keyboard (The generic stuff). The one unique thing that not many people try was
a **Solid State Drive** (glad I am enjoying one). About this time only I took
a look at the detailed configuration of my laptop and upgrade options. I was
surprised to see that the maximum resolution the machine served was upto
8192 x 8192. After the SSD and a memory upgrade I was surprised to see the
performance boost and thanks it was giving me back. I was having all the fun
using multiple screens and not caring if I left any programs open. So I decided
to not get any new machine at all and keep using my CQ40-144TU for a while till
I find something worth upgrading in the market.

Since the time when I first decided for a new machine and now, I saw that there
were a *lot* of notebooks availabe with the *2nd Generation Core i series*
(Sandy Bridge) processors and at compelling prices. So I started a new search
with queries: **Intel HD Graphics 3000** (Ensures Sandy Bridge arch. and no
power hungry graphics card), **Core i5** (Ensures hyper threading and more than
required processing power) and **Free DOS** (Of Course! - I dont want to waste
such a nice notebook with windows). There are some notebooks which come out
as reasonable buys.

I ruled out Dell on the first go as it only seems like it that they allow you
to customize, but they don't. If you want a simple machine without [all the
useless](http://j.mp/o7Zb36) (it is subjective) stuffs like Online backup (If I
wanted one I would use a VPS , Windows (I can't understand why force it!) or
replaceable covers (I am getting a computer not a doll to play with!). What I
want is a processor + motherboard with some notebook essentials with it. HP and
ThinkPads are the brands under my consideration. They provide some business
notebooks which serve all my purposes. 

###Update
Finally I purchased an HP 630 Essential notebook with a Sandy Bridge i5 and
minimal configuration which is completely appropriate for my needs. I have
upgraded the stuff I need myself (SSD and RAM).
